# SNHU Data Structures and Algorithms

## Overview

ABC University (ABCU) is looking for software that will help their computer science advisors access course information for students. To do this, I will utilize what I have learned about data structures throughout the course.

In this course I was tasked with learning about different data structures and the difference in their performance in time and memory with varying sizes of data. In this final project I had to make a program to efficiently display the course data supplied from a comma-separated file. I approached this problem thinking about the strengths and weaknesses of the data structures I've learned about throughout the last few weeks. Some excelled in their performance for sorting but were weaker when it came to inserting data. Others excelled in performance when inserting data but were weaker when it came to searching for that data. So regardless of which data structure I went with, I was expecting drawbacks. It's important to understand this so you can better design the program to fit the user needs, if a you know the user will be inserting and removing data more than any other operation, then you'll be more inclined to use a data structure that has better performance for inserting and removing data. 
 
I decided to go with the Linked List since that was one of the first data structures we learned about and I found the high performance for insertion and deletion useful since I would need to take data from a comma-separated file and insert them all. I definitely ran into roadblocks when trying to figure out how to read the data from the file and insert them into the data structure at the same time. It was a little tricky figuring out how to separate the values by the comma, I had to Google a lot and I use JavaScript predominantly at work so I had to look into the the code behind the `.split` function and figure out how to translate that to C++. I do think for future projects I will keep in consideration the performance of certain data structures and leverage that so it's easier and more effficient to perform certain operations.
